# DeerCounter

DeerCounter is an application designed to analyze images captured during aerial surveys for monitoring deer populations. The application allows users to select a folder containing images, view the images, identify deer using AI, and visualize the flight path of the survey on a map.

## Features

- **Image Viewing**: View images from a selected folder.
- **AI Identification**: Automatically identify deer in images using AI.
- **Flight Path Visualization**: Visualize the flight path of the survey on a map.
- **Export Data**: Export flight path data to a CSV file.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    git clone https://github.com/moi-kei/DeerCounter.git

2. Install dependencies:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

## Usage

1. Run the application:

    - python app.py

2. Select a folder containing images by clicking the "Select Folder" button.
    - Depending on the number of images this may take several minutes to analyse the full folder
3. View images and use the radio button to enable/disable AI identification.
4. Click on an image in the image list on the side to view it or use the next/prev buttons to cycle through images.
5. The flight path will be visualized on the map. Images containing detected deer are highlighted in a different colour.
6. The flight path data will be exported to a CSV file contained in the original folder of images.
7. Images generated by the Yolov8 model are saved to `/predict`. This folder will be emptied once a new folder is selected to be analysed.

## Folder Structure

- `app` contains all files for operation of the application
- `app.py`: Main application file.
- `image_analyser.py`: Module for analyzing images and extracting flight path data.
- `imagelistwidget.py`: Module for displaying a list of images and selecting a folder.
- `imageviewer.py`: Module for displaying images.
- `MainWindow.py` : The mainwindow for the application which houses the widgets
- `predict_image.py`: Module for predicting bounding boxes of objects in images using AI.
- `webenginewidget.py`: Module for displaying a map using WebEngineView.
- `models/`: Directory containing pre-trained AI models.
- `README.md`: This README file.

- `deercounter-yolov8-all_flights_nokeys`: contains an example of the jupyter notebook used to train the model with API keys removed

## Requirements

- Python 3.x
- PyQt6
- Folium
- Ultralytics
- ExifRead

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU License - see the LICENSE file for details.